<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY debian "<productname>Debian GNU/Linux</productname>">
  <!ENTITY led    "<abbrev>LED</abbrev>">
]>

<!-- Manual page for blink, DocBook source file (C) 1998 W. Martin Borgert
     debacle@debian.org -->

<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <address>
      <email>debacle@debian.org</email>
    </address>
    <author>
      <firstname>W.</firstname>
      <othername>Martin</othername>
      <surname>Borgert</surname>
    </author>
    <copyright>
      <year>1999-2008</year>
      <holder>W. Martin Borgert</holder>
    </copyright>
    <date>1999-06-01</date>
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>blink</refentrytitle>

    <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>blink</refname>

    <refpurpose>Blinks keyboard &led;s for various
      purposes.</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>blink</command>

      <arg><option>-c</option></arg>

      <arg><option>--capslockled</option></arg>

      <arg><option>-h</option></arg>

      <arg><option>--help</option></arg>

      <arg><option>-m <replaceable>s</replaceable></option></arg>

      <arg><option>--machine=<replaceable>s</replaceable></option></arg>

      <arg><option>-n</option></arg>

      <arg><option>--numlockled</option></arg>

      <arg><option>-r <replaceable>n</replaceable></option></arg>

      <arg><option>--rate=<replaceable>n</replaceable></option></arg>

      <arg><option>-s</option></arg>

      <arg><option>--scrolllockled</option></arg>

      <arg><option>-t <replaceable>n</replaceable></option></arg>

      <arg><option>--tcp-port=<replaceable>n</replaceable></option></arg>

      <arg><option>-v</option></arg>

      <arg><option>--version</option></arg>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Description</title>

    <para>The programs blink(1) and blinkd(8) help you to count or to
      monitor things like incoming calls on your voice box or incoming
      faxes.  E.g. they blink Scroll-Lock &led; for incoming voice
      calls and Num-Lock &led; for incoming faxes.  Normally, all
      three &led;s (Num-Lock, Caps-Lock, and Scroll-Lock) are handled.
      The blink client will ask the blinkd server to blink the
      specified &led; with the given rate.</para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Usage</title>

    <para>On &debian; <command>blinkd</command> is started without any
      options from <filename>/etc/init.d/blinkd</filename>, unless the
      system administrator changed this.  See blinkd(8) for more
      information.  If you like to count something, e.g. incoming
      calls on your voice mailbox, incoming faxes in your spool or
      whatever, just write a script, that calls <userinput>blink
      --numlockled --rate n</userinput> for the first thing you like
      to count and <userinput>blink --scrolllockled --rate
      m</userinput> for the second thing you like to count and maybe
      <userinput>blink --capslockled --rate l</userinput> for the
      third.  n, m and l are the current numbers of things you like to
      count.</para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Blink Options</title>
    <variablelist>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-c</option>
	  <option>--capslockled</option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Use the Caps-Lock &led;.  If none of the three &led;s
	    is specified, no other rate value than zero is
	    allowed.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-h</option>
          <option>--help</option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Gives a short help on the command line options and
	    exit.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-m <replaceable>s</replaceable></option>
	  <option>--machine=<replaceable>s</replaceable></option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Use the machine <replaceable>s</replaceable>, where
	    the keyboard &led;s will blink.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-n</option>
	  <option>--numlockled</option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Use the Num-Lock &led;.  If none of the three &led;s
	    is specified, no other rate value than zero is
	    allowed.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-r <replaceable>n</replaceable></option>
	  <option>--rate=<replaceable>n</replaceable></option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Sets the blink rate to the given value
	    <replaceable>n</replaceable>.  This can be either a number
	    between 0 and 29, inclusively, or either a
	    <symbol>+</symbol> or a <symbol>-</symbol> character,
	    incrementing or decrementing the current rate by one.  If
	    you specify any other rate than zero, you have also to
	    specify an &led;.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-s</option>
          <option>--scrolllockled</option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Use the Scroll-Lock &led;.  If none of the three
	    &led;s is specified, no other rate value than zero is
	    allowed.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-t <replaceable>n</replaceable></option>
	  <option>--tcp-port=<replaceable>n</replaceable></option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Use the tcp port <replaceable>n</replaceable> on that
	    the blinkd server waits.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
	<term><option>-v</option>
	  <option>--version</option></term>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Give a short version information and exit.</para>
	</listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Examples</title>

    <para>An example for the use of blinkd with the vbox program (an
      <abbrev>ISDN</abbrev> answering machine) is provided in
      <filename>/usr/share/doc/blinkd/examples/standard.tcl</filename>.
      Another example for use with the mgetty fax program is provided
      in <filename>/usr/share/doc/blinkd/examples/new_fax</filename>.</para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Author</title>

      <para>Blinkd/blink is made by <author><firstname>W.</firstname>
	<othername>Martin</othername> <surname>Borgert</surname></author>
	<email>debacle@debian.org</email>, as well as this manual
	page.</para>

  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Copyright</title>

    <para>Copyright 1998-2008 W. Martin Borgert and released under the
      <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License
      (<abbrev>GPL</abbrev>).  Permission is granted to copy,
      distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the
      <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License, Version 3
      or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.</para>

    <para>A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available in this
      Debian package as
      <filename>/usr/share/doc/blinkd/copyright</filename>.</para>

  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Bugs</title>

    <para>Anyone can contact the blinkd server.  There is no security
      mechanism yet.</para>

    <para>These programs seem to run at least on &debian;
      <hardware>alpha</hardware>, <hardware>arm</hardware>,
      <hardware>i386</hardware>, <hardware>m68k</hardware>,
      <hardware>powerpc</hardware>, and <hardware>sparc</hardware>.
      Please send me a mail, if it does run on other platforms or if
      you need something fixed for another platform.</para>

    <para>Internationalization is just in the beginning.  Contribute,
      if you like!</para>

    <para>Please tell me about grammatical or spelling errors!</para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>Date</title>

    <para>Version 0.4.8 released on 2008-01-18.</para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
